>> Brian Holt: That's the for
loop method that we showed you here.
This is a little bit
different way of doing it.
So, cities or arrays rather has
a function on it called forEach.
Now, forEach is a function
that accepts a function,
which is like a little bit
of function-ception for you.
But let's unpack that a little bit.
So let's make that even a little bit more,
>> Brian Holt: Let's
make it more abstract, and
then we'll make it more concrete.
Okay, so if I have const someFunction,
I can actually assign
variables to be functions.
So function thing, and
this just returns 5.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so we haven't done
this previously, but I think, hopefully,
this makes sense.
We can pass around functions just
like we pass around variables.
So now, I can call some function,
okay, right?
That makes sense.
It's logging on 5 there because
that's all this does is return 5.
But now,
what if I have const someOtherFunction,
and that's a function that accepts
a function as a parameter,
and all it does is return
function being called.
Let's just get rid of that for a second.
>> Brian Holt: So now,
if I call someOtherFunction.
And I pass in someFunction,
what would you expect to happen?
>> Group: 5.
>> Brian Holt: 5, right,
so, some function,
is a variable that represents a function,
right?
>> Brian Holt: And
that function just returns 5.
And now, I'm passing that function
to here, to this parameter, and
I'm calling that function.
>> Brian Holt: So the basic thing
I'm trying to represent to you here,
is that you get to treat
functions like variables, right?
You can pass around functions.
>> Brian Holt: Which, is one of the more
powerful things that JavaScript is capable
of, in my opinion.
>> Brian Holt: So
going back up here to ForEach.
ForEach is a function that
accepts a function, right.
And, what this particular
function does is,
it runs this function,
once per every item on the array.
Okay, so for cities I have 12345.
How many times does this
function here get invoked?
Five times, right?
It gets called once for
every item in the array.
So here, and then this city here is it's
being passed in every single item, right?
So, the first thing it's
going to pass into Seattle.
The second thing that's going to pass
in is San Francisco, so on and so
forth, right?
So, if we come back down here, you'll
see that it is logging out every item
in the array because it's
constLogging that, yeah?
>> Speaker 3: Why is it the method
two city instead of cities?
>> Speaker 4: That can be I even, right?
>> Brian Holt: This right here
is that what you're asking?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: It can be whatever,
it's just the name of
whatever I chose to call it.
Just like it's a parameter, right?
I chose to call this one fn.
I could have called it lol.
It's just the name of the variable.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Does that
answer your question?
>> Speaker 3: Yes.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
>> Speaker 4: City is
more logically connected.
>> Brian Holt: No, no whatever,
I'm sticking with that.
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 4: In this context,
it gets confusing.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 5: So,
every time you would write this forEach,
would you call it a loop?
Or, I guess when you call
the forEach function on a an array,
you would always call function
with some variable name in there.
And the variable name will represent,
they'll always be each element of array,
correct?
>> Brian Holt: Yep, so you can be
assured because this is the way that
forEach works.
That the first parameter that you get is
going to be whatever item in the array
that you're currently working on.
>> Speaker 5: And
if you have an array of objects,
then that would give
you the entire object.
>> Brian Holt: Correct,
whatever is in here, right, so
if I put true here just
again to upset you.
The last thing in here is gonna be true,
right?
Now, I believe there's a second secret
parameter, that I put index here,
it will actually give you
whatever index you're on.
0, 1, 2, 3, 4 as well.
So, if you need that particular index,
like we did up here,
right, what i represents,
you also have access to that.
Most time, it doesn't matter so
you can just ignore it.
You don't even have to
accept the parameter.
And that's fine, they're okay with that.
>> Speaker 5: And if you are working
with an array of objects that were like
people like we used before.
I could say function, whatever name and
it would print out all the names,
as opposed the objects, would that work?
>> Brian Holt: So, like if these were
objects and they have like .name.
>> Speaker 5: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: So
it would try and like loop over.
>> Speaker 5: No, so
you leave cities right there but
there will be like whatever.name
>> Brian Holt: Here?
>> Speaker 5: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Uh-uh,
that's not gonna work.
>> Brian Holt: There's kind
of a way you can do that.
>> Speaker 5: Even getting in the weeds,
feel free to stop me.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, I mean you can
do what's called de-structuring here,
I'd have to put these curly braces there.
>> Speaker 5: Don't like that at all.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 5: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
just a little off in the weeds.
>> Speaker 5: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: We'll come
back to that one, yeah.
>> Speaker 6: And then, when you're
creating parameters, you don't have to
declare them anywhere else beforehand,
they're declared right then and there.
>> Brian Holt: Like this one right here.
Yep, just declared right there.
>> Brian Holt: You have to play fast and
loose.
>> Brian Holt: Which again,
it's a double edged sword like it
helps you be really productive.
It also will create problems for you.
Eventually just kind of get used to,
you shoot yourself in the foot so
many times you kind of get used to it.
It's like Stockholm Syndrome.
[LAUGH] I like JavaScript.
I quite enjoy it.
>> Brian Holt: I've been doing it for
a decade, though, so.
>> Speaker 7: Says our kidnapper.
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Yep.
>> Brian Holt: Other questions?
>> Brian Holt: So, if you ask me which
one of these I prefer, I prefer this one.
And what's curious about this,
I probably didn't learn about forEach and
how it worked until probably
like five years into my career.
I just went to some meetup,
I don't even remember who was speaking,
it was in Salt Lake City.
And someone started talking about this
new fangled functional programming thing,
which is not new fangled,
but it was to me.
And I once I started learning about it and
getting more interested is I wish I
had learned about this
way earlier in my career.
So this is like the tip of an iceberg of
an entire paradigm of programming again
called functional programming.
So there's another one called map.
>> Brian Holt: Works relatively
the same way as forEach.
But instead what happens if I
do return city.toupperCase[ ].
And this will be const newCities = that.
And I come over here and
say a console.log, new cities.
And I got rid of this.
Yeah, look, dynamic programming.
So now, I have a new array here from new
cities and everything is to uppercase.
So what map does again works
relatively the same way as for
each, it goes over every
item in the array once.
But whatever you return,
it creates a new array with whatever
those things that you're returning.
So the idea behind map is you're
taking some array of something,
and you're transforming into
an array of something else, right?
So I'm just taking those, and
I'm returning everything into uppercase.
And that's why I get a new array here.
Keep in mind that I have
not modified cities.
So, if I come back in here and
I log cities above it,
cities is totally unchanged, right?
But now I have a new
array here in new cities
that is everything into uppercase, right?
Make sense?
>> Speaker 8: If you didn't
create the new cities constant,
would you still have a new array or
just be the same?
>> Brian Holt: So, if I didn't do this?
Is that what you're saying?
>> Speaker 8: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: This would still be run,
but it wouldn't be stored anywhere, right?
So, this would return something that
would just be thrown away, right?
So you have to store it somewhere.
It would be the same as saying,
2 + 2, that's valid JavaScript.
That will run,
that's not gonna crash the program.
>> Brian Holt: But since,
this is not being stored anywhere,
it's just executes that and then moves on.